Corticosteroids provide anti-inflammatory relief for many conditions
and come in drug forms such as tablets, inhalers, eyedrops and others.
The body normally responds to inflammation or cell damage
by producing white blood cells and chemical messengers
to fight an infection or repair damage.
However, in some cases the surge of all of these
substances to a localized area of the body
can cause symptoms of inflammation
and damage to the body's tissues.
Corticosteroids bind to steroid receptors inside cells
and form a tightly formed group.
When the steroid receptor group is activated,
it moves inside the cell's nucleus,
where it is able to control the cell's ability to make proteins.
The proteins that are made decrease
inflammatory chemical messengers
and reduce symptoms of inflammation
like swelling, redness, pain and others.